# guinget Version 0.1 Pre-Alpha 2 Changelog
Released on 6/8/2020 (MM/DD/YYYY).

Only three days after the first pre-release, a new pre-release version is ready! Even though there aren't many changes in this version, what has been changed has made a major difference for usability in my opinion. Please be sure to read the Readme included with this version of guinget or [online](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/readmes/readme-v0.1-prealpha2.txt) as it has important info. Also refer to the [System Requirements](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/system-requirements.md).

If you are reading this in Notepad or another text editor, it displays best in Word Wrap view. Click on Format>Word Wrap on the top bar. Notepad++ users will find it under View>Word Wrap. Word Wrap is automatically done if viewing on GitHub or on the website.

## Hashes

MD5 checksums/hashes are not used for guinget as they are weaker than SHA-256. [More details](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/UXL-Launcher/issues/124), though they're not as relevant to guinget:


You can use Windows PowerShell to confirm the hash of the main guinget EXE file by running
`Get-FileHash .\guinget.exe -Algorithm SHA256` in the folder you extracted the archive to and comparing the output to my sums listed below. HowToGeek has a nice [article on this](https://www.howtogeek.com/67241/htg-explains-what-are-md5-sha-1-hashes-and-how-do-i-check-them/), but the Windows section is a bit further down on the page.

The PowerShell method can be used for all files listed below, though you'll have to switch out the filenames.

SHA-256 sum for "guinget.exe" in the archive:
9E93D482550551BF0529BF1CB26AF0B9562622760ECCD9BE30F0293031F414BF

SHA-256 sum for "libguinget.dll" in the archive:
7886890B0BC4168FDFFB853ACAB6313B77CDBF4E7905006FA64186F522496AC5

SHA-256 sum for "update-manifests.bat" in the archive:
AFA421669D4856FB9136656B97CD2098478B1FE67AD5CB2326DA5A8BDA4BD36A

SHA-256 sum for "YamlDotNet.dll" in the archive:
632E1C37E67E5BE46766FFC9ED7790C22D1FE75A5B83AAB9EC4C0678414E5B82



## Added

- You can now search for packages using the search bar available in the toolbar.
  - For now, this only searches in the `Package` column, but searching in other columns is planned.
  - Activating the search box is done in multiple ways:
    - Simply clicking the search box
    - Pressing `Ctrl+F`
    - Choosing `Package list>Search` from the menubar
  - Starting a search can be done in a few ways:
    - Pressing `Enter` once you're done typing
    - Clicking the `Search` toolbar button
  - If there are no packages loaded, searching won't do anything.
  - Please be aware that [using `Ctrl+A` to select all packages in the search results currently selects even non-filtered packages](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/13).
  
## Changed

- Marking many packages at once is now almost instant as column auto-sizing is turned off while marking packages if more than 25 are selected to be marked.
  - The threshold of selected packages that determines whether we should disable column auto-sizing while marking selected packages could change in the future, and it may eventually be a setting the user can change.
  - Previously, column auto-sizing wasn't disabled, and marking an excessive number of packages would take way too long. Now the entire list can be marked in what feels like less than a second or two (even though that's not recommended), while before it would take an extremely long amount of time. It was awful, just awful.

## Links

[Releases page with downloads for this version](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/releases/tag/v0.1-prealpha1)