# guinget Version 0.1.3 Alpha Changelog
Released on 12/2/2020 (MM/DD/YYYY).

Took a half a year, but you can now bulk-install packages! Besides that very important change, here are some highlights:
- You can now do things like update winget's sources (if it doesn't do it automatically) and edit winget's settings without typing anything into a command-line. Editing winget's settings for the administrator account you use when elevating winget is also available.
- A new checkbox in the `Apply changes` window you can use to have winget run elevated when installing packages, something rather important in case winget doesn't automatically elevate the installer like it's supposed to.
- Now you can quickly get back to the package list after a search by pressing `Ctrl+F` again while the search box is in focus.
- Package `Actions` are no longer in a submenu, thus making them quicker to use.
- You can show a package in winget using the `Show in winget` button, available in the package context menu and the `Selected packages` menu. This takes into account the version you're looking at right then, but maybe it would be helpful to add an option to show the latest version according to winget.
- Any of the options that can be set anywhere in the UI can also be set in the `Options` window, now accessible from `Tools>Options...` in addition to the `Package list>Search options...` shortcut.
- Fixed winget not knowing which source to use when installing a package available in multiple sources. This was only an issue when the Store source was on, and it affected Windows Terminal, as one example. If the source name ever changes, it can be changed in the `Experimental options` as described in the main part of the changelog.
- Documentation has been greatly improved, and the [website](https://drew-naylor.com/guinget) is now a lot closer to being a recommended documentation source.

Now that the highlights are done, here's the rest of the notes:

Some packages like CrystalDiskMark and LibreOffice may require administrative permissions to install, so you'll have to check the `Elevate winget (UAC)` checkbox in the `Apply changes` window before clicking `Confirm changes`. Please do not run guinget 0.1.3 or newer as an administrator; everything that requires running winget as an administrator that's available in guinget is covered in this version. Windows 10 version 2004 seems to have issues with running winget elevated, so it may be a good idea to just rely on winget automatically elevating installers if the checkbox doesn't work. If that doesn't work, then winget must be broken, or something.

Please be sure to read the Readme included with this version of guinget or [online](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/readmes/readme-v0.1.3-alpha.txt) as it has important info. Also refer to the [System Requirements](https://drew-naylor.com/guinget/system-requirements).

If you are reading this in Notepad or another text editor, it displays best in Word Wrap view. Click on Format>Word Wrap on the top bar. Notepad++ users will find it under View>Word Wrap. Word Wrap is automatically done if viewing on GitHub or on the website.

## Hashes

MD5 checksums/hashes are not used for guinget as they are weaker than SHA-256. [More details](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/UXL-Launcher/issues/124), though they're not as relevant to guinget.


You can use Windows PowerShell to confirm the hash of the main guinget EXE file by running
`Get-FileHash .\guinget.exe -Algorithm SHA256` in the folder you extracted the archive to and comparing the output to my sums listed below. HowToGeek has a nice [article on this](https://www.howtogeek.com/67241/htg-explains-what-are-md5-sha-1-hashes-and-how-do-i-check-them/), but the Windows section is a bit further down on the page.

The PowerShell method can be used for all files listed below, though you'll have to switch out the filenames.

SHA-256 sum for "guinget_v0.1.3-alpha.exe", which is the installer attached to this release:
Not ready yet...

SHA-256 sum for "guinget.exe" in the archive:
6D1317FB0227D8D803684664DE20A7B2A052C7A165703B411E0ADD7630C85466

SHA-256 sum for "lib\libguinget.dll" in the archive:
19BF60E59EC5183529D5857C39D53F864C200C85CB861B9ADA721B9160788D16

SHA-256 sum for "update-manifests.bat" in the archive:
AFA421669D4856FB9136656B97CD2098478B1FE67AD5CB2326DA5A8BDA4BD36A

SHA-256 sum for "lib\YamlDotNet.dll" in the archive:
8838A6EC1F2DED411D7C72CAA5DA2F524CFF08145850D2496A758F072FC96F67

The rest of the libraries in the "lib" folder are from Microsoft.Data.Sqlite and I don't want to list them all:
https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Data.Sqlite/



## Added

- Bulk package installs
  - For now, they're all passed to winget all at once, but eventually there may be a graphical progress indicator.
  - You can still install one package at a time by double-clicking or pressing `Enter` on the one you want to install.
  - Only packages marked as "Ready" will be bulk-installed, in case there were others that were installed solo in the current session.
  - To make it easier to bulk-install packages, `Confirm changes` is now focused when opening the `Apply changes` window.
  - Tip: If you run into an issue with winget, you can close and reopen the `Apply changes` window to reset package status and try again.
- Pressing `Ctrl+F` when the search box is focused will send focus back to the package list.
- Elevate winget
  - Sometimes winget won't automatically elevate package installers, but now you can force it to with the `Elevate winget (UAC)` checkbox in the `Apply changes` window.
  - MSIX packages like Windows Terminal might not install properly if your account used for administrative actions is logged out at the moment.
  - Windows 10 version 2004 might have issues with running winget elevated, so hopefully winget will elevate the installer itself. If it doesn't, then it's broken and there's not really anything you can do based on my experience.
  - The account used for administrative actions must have winget installed, so what you'll probably have to do is this:
    1. Log into your administrator account.
    2. Download and install winget in your administrator account.
    3. Log back into your regular account.
    4. Download and install winget in your regular account (if you don't, it won't be able to run for some reason).
    5. Make sure winget still runs in both an elevated and non-elevated CMD window (just `winget` should be enough).
    6. Update winget's sources, perhaps using `Package list>Update winget sources`, or manually type it in CMD. For some reason, winget doesn't update its sources if it's running elevated from a non-administrator account.
    7. Now you can use the `Elevate winget (UAC)` checkbox.
  - Edited excerpt from the [usage guide](https://drew-naylor.com/guinget/How-to-use): Please don't run guinget as administrator in version 0.1.3 or higher, as winget seems to have an issue updating its sources when running elevated (which is what guinget does if guinget itself is elevated). If you need to install a package with winget elevated, please use the `Elevate winget (UAC)` checkbox in the `Apply changes` window as described above. Be sure to use the `Package list>Update winget sources` menu item described below if winget complains that it can't find that package/package version, then try installing that package again.
- Search for all packages containing a specific ID using `Search for last-selected ID` in the package context menu or from the `Selected packages` menu
- Searches are automatically re-run after a cache update if there's something in the search box. This can be turned off by opening `Package list>Search options...`, unchecking `Re-run search after cache update`, then clicking `OK`.
- The setting for `Install interactively (-i)` is automatically migrated if using the installer version, as migrating settings relies on being installed to the same folder as the previous version.
- Some experimental features have been added, and you can use them by changing the config file
  - `Use7zipForExtraction`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - Package manifest ZIP files will be extracted using 7-Zip instead of the built-in .NET extractor. This may be a lot faster, although it's neither fully tested nor is it as complete as the code using the .NET extractor.
	- If 7-Zip can't be found in what's set in `PathTo7zip`, extraction will fail.
  - `PathTo7zip`: String; defaults to `"C:\Program Files\7-Zip\7z.exe"`
    - Specifies the path of the 7-Zip CLI binary for use when using 7-Zip for extraction.
  - `UseRobocopyForCopying`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - Robocopy will be used for copying manifests into the proper folder instead of the built-in .NET file copy method. This may be a lot faster, although it's neither fully implemented nor is it fully tested.
  - During testing on my laptop, using 7-Zip and Robocopy reduced the cache updating time from 1 minute 40 seconds to about 1 minute 4 seconds.
  - Closing guinget before the cache update is completed if using Robocopy and/or 7-Zip will leave those programs open and you'll have to close them manually. This should be changed in a future version to automatically close them when closing guinget.
  - `LoadFromSqliteDb`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - [More details](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/pull/37)
    - The package list will be loaded using the same SQLite database as `winget` uses by default, located at [https://winget.azureedge.net/cache/source.msix](https://winget.azureedge.net/cache/source.msix). This still relies on the manifests to get the package descriptions as those aren't directly available in the database, though.
	- The goal is to allow the database URL to be changed, but it's hardcoded for now. May be a good idea to allow the manifest location to be changed eventually, too.
	- Each package version is listed as a separate entry even when loading from the database, though using the database will make sure only packages `winget` can display right now are shown.
	- Some packages may be in a different order compared to loading all the manifests at once, but this shouldn't be much of an issue, and clicking the `Package` column header should sort them as expected.
	- Loading the descriptions may still take a bit as we have to take the package ID and version number and figure out where its manifest is, instead of just grabbing all the manifests and loading from them. In case we can't find a package's manifest, we'll just look through all the manifests until we find the right one.
	  - Figuring out where each package's manifest is stored is done in three ways:
        - If replacing all instances of "." in the package ID and appending the package version to the end of the path along with ".yaml" finds a file that exists, then that's great and we'll use that file. This is the fastest method.
        - If that doesn't work, then we only replace the first instance of the "." in the ID and try again with the version thing. This should be fast, too.
        - If neither of those work, then we fall back to looking for manifests with the package's version number in their filename, opening each file match we find, checking the package ID in the file, and if it's a match, we use it. Otherwise we keep going until finding the manifest. At the moment, this doesn't check to make sure that a file exists, so it may crash if it can't find a matching manifest. The Visual Studio profiler says there's a lot of garbage collection going on as well, so this will probably need to be changed to something like Using to keep automatic garbage collection to a minimum.
    - Both the zip file and installer for version 0.1.2 will be larger than version 0.1.1 due to the extra libraries that are used when reading the SQLite database.
	- You may need to manually delete the package list cache located in `%AppData%\winget-frontends\source` before using the database as it may get confused if the manifest directory (`winget-pkgs`) exists but the database one (`winget-db`) doesn't. This'll be changed when loading from the database is officially supported.

  
## Fixed

- Sometimes the package context menu isn't shown where expected. ([issue #14](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/14))
- If a manifest cannot be found after being loaded into the package list, guinget will no longer try to load the manifest.

## Changed

- The `Options` window now contains everything that can be configured anywhere else in the UI.
  - You can get to this window from `Tools>Options...`, but the `Search options...` shortcut is still available.
  - As a result of containing every available option, the `Show sidebar` checkbox was moved to the `Layout` tab as it makes more sense there.
- Exact matches are now the default when using `Selected packages>Search for package ID`, but you can change it back by unchecking `Use exact match for selected package ID search` in `Tools>Options...>Search`.
  - Since this relies on using double-quotes ("") in the search box, you can surround your search term with double-quotes if you want to do an exact search without using the menu item, even if the option to use exact matches is off.
  - Searches check the entire package ID when surrounded by double-quotes, rather than checking if the package ID simply contains the search term.
  - If the search term doesn't begin and end with double-quotes, exact matches won't be performed.
- Both guinget and libguinget have been upgraded to use .NET Framework 4.8, primarily to reduce the number of libraries copied to the bin directory when using Microsoft.Data.Sqlite. Users may need to [update to .NET Framework 4.8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-framework/net48) for guinget/libguinget version 0.1.2 to work on their systems.
  - Microsoft has a [table of system requirements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/get-started/system-requirements) available, but to make things simple, versions of Windows prior to Windows 10 1903 (aside from Windows 8.0, which doesn't appear on that list for .NET Framework 4.8 so I assume it's not supported anymore) will have to update to .NET Framework 4.8.
  - Disk space requirements increased from 2.5 GB to 4.5 GB in .NET Framework 4.8, so guinget's disk space requirements are going up as well with a note that it's based on .NET Framework's requirements.
- Due to using Microsoft.Data.Sqlite for database reading (if set), there are now several more libraries in the `bin` folder, so all the libraries have been moved to `\lib`. This may cause issues for people upgrading from 0.1.1 or earlier to 0.1.2 without using the installer, so it's recommended to delete the files in there and copy them all from the ZIP file. This will remove any changes made to the config file if they were done in the one next to the app. The installer will delete `libguinget` and `YamlDotNet` if present when upgrading.
- The header of the currently-selected column is now highlighted due to something Microsoft changed in .Net Framework 4.8.
- More detail has been added to some error messages when the manifest zip file can't be extracted or copied for some reason.
- YamlDotNet has been updated to version 8.1.2.
- `Package list>Selected package` has been moved to its own menu, `Selected packages`. This helps make both menus less cluttered.
- If there's something in the search box, it'll appear in the status bar as "Searching for (search term)...". Otherwise it'll just say "Searching..."
- `Package list>Search` has been renamed to `Package list>Focus search box`.
- The main window has been resized to be a little bigger, as the sidebar made it feel a little small.
- The cache update progress window's progress bar animation speed has been sped up from 100 to 63 so that it feels like it goes faster even though it doesn't; this is a psychological thing.
- Uninstaller now mentions the `winget-frontends` folder after uninstallation. This was a last-minute change in 0.1.1's installer, but it's also in this version.
- Instead of displaying a hardcoded version number, the About window now display's the version number from the Assembly Info.
- There's no longer a version number displayed in the main window's titlebar.
- Documentation has been updated. This includes new screenshots, better organization in the readme, and updates to other documentation files for the latest version.

## Removed

- The non-split Search button on the toolbar has been deleted since the split one is now functional with the `Search options...` button in its dropdown.
- No installer startup message is displayed for the default installer anymore.

## Deprecation notices

- `update-manifests.bat` is deprecated. Its removal will be done in stages to slowly transition to a world that no longer relies on `update-manifests.bat` for any scenario:
  - For now it'll stay in the package, but be unused by default.  **<-- You Are Here**
  - Eventually the version in the package will be changed to be a simple script that tells you where to download the main script.
  - After a while it'll be fully removed from the package.
  - A while after that support for it will be fully removed from guinget. It's expected that support will be fully removed by the time guinget (and winget, but it may take longer for guinget to gain that feature) supports multiple sources, if not in the same version.
  - It may be possible that it'll go from being supported in a way that requires it to be enabled manually to being removed from the package, or having support be removed completely, all at once.
- Since the code to get details from winget is deprecated, it was commented out in version 0.1 alpha. This code may continue to exist in this state as an example for how to get info from winget.
