# guinget Version 0.1.2 Alpha Changelog
Released on 8/3/2020 (MM/DD/YYYY).

There may be times when you want to retain search terms for later use in the same session, so this update introduces the sidebar. In the future, this sidebar may include other lists just like Synaptic, but it's just search terms for now. Double-clicking or pressing `Enter` on a search term in this list will start a search with it. You can clear search terms by right-clicking in the list and choosing either `Clear selected search term` or `Clear all search terms`.

Please be aware that it may take several more times of pressing `Tab` to get back to the package list from the search bar when the sidebar is showing.

If you want to close the sidebar, you can click the `X` button in its top-right corner; uncheck `View>Sidebar`; or uncheck the `Show sidebar` checkbox in the `Options` window, which you can get to from `Package list>Search options...`, then click `OK`.

This update also fixes the bug where the package context menu doesn't show up where expected the first time it's opened every session.

Some packages like CrystalDiskMark and LibreOffice may require administrative permissions to install, so you'll have to run guinget as an administrator.

Please be sure to read the Readme included with this version of guinget or [online](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/readmes/readme-v0.1.2-alpha.txt) as it has important info. Also refer to the [System Requirements](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/system-requirements.md).

If you are reading this in Notepad or another text editor, it displays best in Word Wrap view. Click on Format>Word Wrap on the top bar. Notepad++ users will find it under View>Word Wrap. Word Wrap is automatically done if viewing on GitHub or on the website.

## Hashes

MD5 checksums/hashes are not used for guinget as they are weaker than SHA-256. [More details](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/UXL-Launcher/issues/124), though they're not as relevant to guinget:


You can use Windows PowerShell to confirm the hash of the main guinget EXE file by running
`Get-FileHash .\guinget.exe -Algorithm SHA256` in the folder you extracted the archive to and comparing the output to my sums listed below. HowToGeek has a nice [article on this](https://www.howtogeek.com/67241/htg-explains-what-are-md5-sha-1-hashes-and-how-do-i-check-them/), but the Windows section is a bit further down on the page.

The PowerShell method can be used for all files listed below, though you'll have to switch out the filenames.

SHA-256 sum for "guinget_v0.1.1-alpha-quieter.exe", which is a quieter installer without the startup message:
EE7EE57E21BC999F68CFF63DF1DCCA6B9C6A22E2443AAC7406E9028298EA45A4

SHA-256 sum for "guinget_v0.1.1-alpha.exe", which is the main installer attached to this release:
924A4378503550E1D3061A6DA1D47970056BBDADC8D19131CDA43A6662979BCD

SHA-256 sum for "guinget.exe" in the archive:
04AB6B27105B029EDE0472B9C79CC7FF54A3F6EC0049987913025A8667DC27B8

SHA-256 sum for "lib\libguinget.dll" in the archive:
69236CD4E373B2B9705BB1B91F07148E4283C6964890AE6B04177A8ABECEF11E

SHA-256 sum for "update-manifests.bat" in the archive:
AFA421669D4856FB9136656B97CD2098478B1FE67AD5CB2326DA5A8BDA4BD36A

SHA-256 sum for "lib\YamlDotNet.dll" in the archive:
8838A6EC1F2DED411D7C72CAA5DA2F524CFF08145850D2496A758F072FC96F67

The rest of the libraries in the "lib" folder are from Microsoft.Data.Sqlite and I don't want to list them all:
https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Data.Sqlite/



## Added

- Search sidebar
  - Displays all search terms from the current session, like Synaptic
  - Double-clicking or pressing `Enter` on one of these terms (aside from `All`, at the top) will start a search for it
  - Double-clicking or pressing `Enter` on `All` at the top of the list will take you back to an unfiltered list
  - The list can be cleared with the items in its context menu
    - `Clear selected search term` clears whatever is currently selected in the list
    - `Clear all search terms` clears everything
    - Both options leave the `All` entry
  - If you don't want to use the sidebar, you can hide it in three ways:
    - Clicking the `X` button in the top-right corner next to the page dropdown
	- Unchecking `View>Sidebar`
	- Unchecking the `Show sidebar` checkbox in the `Options` window under `Package list>Search options...`, and clicking `OK`.
  - Resizable using the splitter line between it and the package list area, although the size doesn't persist between sessions. May be a good idea to allow this at some point.
- `Escape`/`Esc` key clears the search box when focused
- Search for all packages containing a specific ID using `Search for last-selected ID` in the package context menu or from the `Selected packages` menu
- Searches are automatically re-run after a cache update if there's something in the search box. This can be turned off by opening `Package list>Search options...`, unchecking `Re-run search after cache update`, then clicking `OK`.
- The setting for `Install interactively (-i)` is automatically migrated if using the installer version, as migrating settings relies on being installed to the same folder as the previous version.
- Some experimental features have been added, and you can use them by changing the config file
  - `Use7zipForExtraction`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - Package manifest ZIP files will be extracted using 7-Zip instead of the built-in .NET extractor. This may be a lot faster, although it's neither fully tested nor is it as complete as the code using the .NET extractor.
	- If 7-Zip can't be found in what's set in `PathTo7zip`, extraction will fail.
  - `PathTo7zip`: String; defaults to `"C:\Program Files\7-Zip\7z.exe"`
    - Specifies the path of the 7-Zip CLI binary for use when using 7-Zip for extraction.
  - `UseRobocopyForCopying`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - Robocopy will be used for copying manifests into the proper folder instead of the built-in .NET file copy method. This may be a lot faster, although it's neither fully implemented nor is it fully tested.
  - `LoadFromSqliteDb`: Boolean; defaults to `False`
    - [More details](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/pull/37)
    - The package list will be loaded using the same SQLite database as `winget` uses by default, located at [https://winget.azureedge.net/cache/source.msix](https://winget.azureedge.net/cache/source.msix). This still relies on the manifests to get the package descriptions as those aren't directly available in the database, though.
	- The goal is to allow the database URL to be changed, but it's hardcoded for now. May be a good idea to allow the manifest location to be changed eventually, too.
	- Each package version is listed as a separate entry even when loading from the database, though using the database will make sure only packages `winget` can display right now are shown.
	- Some packages may be in a different order compared to loading all the manifests at once, but this shouldn't be much of an issue, and clicking the `Package` column header should sort them as expected.
	- Loading the descriptions may still take a bit as we have to take the package ID and version number and figure out where its manifest is, instead of just grabbing all the manifests and loading from them. In case we can't find a package's manifest, we'll just look through all the manifests until we find the right one.
	  - Figuring out where each package's manifest is stored is done in three ways:
        - If replacing all instances of "." in the package ID and appending the package version to the end of the path along with ".yaml" finds a file that exists, then that's great and we'll use that file. This is the fastest method.
        - If that doesn't work, then we only replace the first instance of the "." in the ID and try again with the version thing. This should be fast, too.
        - If neither of those work, then we fall back to looking for manifests with the package's version number in their filename, opening each file match we find, checking the package ID in the file, and if it's a match, we use it. Otherwise we keep going until finding the manifest. At the moment, this doesn't check to make sure that a file exists, so it may crash if it can't find a matching manifest. The Visual Studio profiler says there's a lot of garbage collection going on as well, so this will probably need to be changed to something like Using to keep automatic garbage collection to a minimum.
    - Both the zip file and installer for version 0.1.2 will be larger than version 0.1.1 due to the extra libraries that are used when reading the SQLite database.

  
## Fixed

- Sometimes the package context menu isn't shown where expected. ([issue #14](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/14))
- Column headers in the `Apply changes` window were sometimes too tall, but now they're closer to the height they should be.

## Changed

- Multi-select has been turned off in the `Apply changes` window as there's no code to handle that situation and it could be confusing.

## Deprecation notices

- `update-manifests.bat` is deprecated. Its removal will be done in stages to slowly transition to a world that no longer relies on `update-manifests.bat` for any scenario:
  - For now it'll stay in the package, but be unused by default.  **<-- You Are Here**
  - Eventually the version in the package will be changed to be a simple script that tells you where to download the main script.
  - After a while it'll be fully removed from the package.
  - A while after that support for it will be fully removed from guinget. It's expected that support will be fully removed by the time guinget (and winget, but it may take longer for guinget to gain that feature) supports multiple sources, if not in the same version.
  - It may be possible that it'll go from being supported in a way that requires it to be enabled manually to being removed from the package, or having support be removed completely, all at once.
- Since the code to get details from winget is deprecated, it was commented out in version 0.1 alpha. This code may continue to exist in this state as an example for how to get info from winget.