# guinget Version 0.3.0.2 Beta Changelog
Released on 5/12/2022 (MM/DD/YYYY).

Had to fix a few things that broke near the release of v0.3.0.1 (manifests with too-long file paths) or will probably break soon (winget database URL), so that's why this version exists.

You can find the full changelog below.

> Some packages like CrystalDiskMark and LibreOffice may require administrative permissions to install, so you'll have to check the `Elevate winget with UAC` checkbox in the `Options: Apply Changes` mini-form (accessible from `Apply changes window>Options... linklabel`) before clicking `Confirm changes`. **Please do not run guinget 0.1.3 or newer as an administrator**; everything that requires running winget as an administrator that's available in guinget is covered now. Some Windows 10 installations seem to have issues with running winget elevated from a non-Administrator account, so it may be a good idea to run winget from within an Administrator account and elevate using the checkbox if necessary. If that doesn't work, then winget must be broken, or something. I've run into that issue and can't seem to fix winget, so I'm not sure if there really is a fix.

Please be sure to read the Readme included with this version of guinget or [online](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/blob/master/docs/readmes/readme-v0.3.0.2-beta.txt) as it has important info. Also refer to the [System Requirements](https://drew-naylor.com/guinget/system-requirements).

If you are reading this in Notepad or another text editor, it displays best in Word Wrap view. Click on Format>Word Wrap on the top bar. Notepad++ users will find it under View>Word Wrap. Word Wrap is automatically done if viewing on GitHub or on the website.

## Hashes

You can use Windows PowerShell to confirm the hash of the main guinget EXE file by running
`Get-FileHash .\guinget.exe -Algorithm SHA256` in the folder you extracted the archive to and comparing the output to my sums listed below. HowToGeek has a nice [article on this](https://www.howtogeek.com/67241/htg-explains-what-are-md5-sha-1-hashes-and-how-do-i-check-them/), but the Windows section is a bit further down on the page.

The PowerShell method can be used for all files listed below, though you'll have to switch out the filenames.

SHA-256 sum for "guinget_v0.3.0.2-beta.exe", which is the installer attached to this release:
Not sure yet...

SHA-256 sum for "guinget.exe":
ABD75F6409113A734F304B3C1CB03FDEDE69F0A246DB2CD9E090796F0D6F6718

SHA-256 sum for "EnableLongPathsEnabled.reg":
20CBDA1EEFE7C24FB3A432CAE07A4D3C4B66449DB4B333AE007FE8BC1D4DACFC

SHA-256 sum for "DisableLongPathsEnabled.reg":
D732F552C8F9D0B9E4EF85F7BD422CB6136434994F9E5267C4F94F9139A55D32

These SHA-256 sums are for the libraries. Figured it would be a good idea to list them all out. I got this list by running `Get-ChildItem -Path .\lib -Recurse -Filter *.dll | Get-FileHash -Algorithm SHA256` in the archive's root folder. Here's how I learned to do it recursively: https://shellgeek.com/get-md5-checksum-or-sha-checksum-for-file-in-powershell/#Get-FileHash_Recursive_for_files

```text
2311160E10FEE44C66C2F46AEA6C70CAC4F36B1A0AA4CCB9F69BADEF381B9D01       .\lib\libguinget.dll
3F2741B885A3BDD03422E0346542BF4D13384A5287FD3BAF94D05C964ABECB92       .\lib\libscrollswitchtabs.dll
FC681DC1FD170A4F27487BD6D91103093A16F526D47F07EFF363EB85362A18B7       .\lib\Microsoft.Data.Sqlite.dll
B70365348A01BC6F8753B6F5F39FDA30504EB585158F457613F6A3C8B7B89214       .\lib\SQLitePCLRaw.batteries_v2.dll
947B730A2DB758D062A79749D3877A8611ED9516179F16862CDDEFA556E5F467       .\lib\SQLitePCLRaw.core.dll
9982F856992E7234E77A13EA2AD200D679D5CDB3EB1706CD735AB494120D8F31       .\lib\SQLitePCLRaw.nativelibrary.dll
A0AB2C550198463C0A7EAA2071A4214793B57591C53A681634ED3E228D2F8C74       .\lib\SQLitePCLRaw.provider.dynamic_cdecl.dll
ACCCCFBE45D9F08FFEED9916E37B33E98C65BE012CFFF6E7FA7B67210CE1FEFB       .\lib\System.Buffers.dll
437CEDACC15547BCC5F997B65774B9B52B1A6B5F1E00303A9B31F48711BC6594       .\lib\System.dll
8E76318E8B06692ABF7DAB1169D27D15557F7F0A34D36AF6463EFF0FE21213C7       .\lib\System.Memory.dll
1D3EF8698281E7CF7371D1554AFEF5872B39F96C26DA772210A33DA041BA1183       .\lib\System.Numerics.Vectors.dll
37768488E8EF45729BC7D9A2677633C6450042975BB96516E186DA6CB9CD0DCF       .\lib\System.Runtime.CompilerServices.Unsafe.dll
F24D57A17849F58239561BA7872F2AA68BF6C80F365A0FCD6AEEF06B4440B476       .\lib\YamlDotNet.dll
618AE75967ACF2053FDE3C74B2D96C4E6C097675C3A725EBC5605521DF296FBC       .\lib\runtimes\win-arm\native\e_sqlite3.dll
29029877DCE20E985487B1805733D72E0962E6A5CB72796B52A52628AED085D5       .\lib\runtimes\win-x64\native\e_sqlite3.dll
D2E0558E63AC31BD4ED01E4DB7107812808B17C0223455C00482F631C0B43339       .\lib\runtimes\win-x86\native\e_sqlite3.dll
```


## Fixed

- Some packages have manifests that result in a file path that's too long for Windows. On Windows 10 version 1607 and higher, the `LongPathsEnabled` Registry key allows you to remove the 260-character path limit (259 characters with a `NUL` at the end). Applications have to change their manifest to support this, and this version of guinget has done such. If you still have issues, you can open the `EnableLongPathsEnabled.reg` file using an elevated (Administrator) Command Prompt or PowerShell. As with any `.reg` file, it's wise to check it in Notepad first. You can also turn this feature off by opening `DisableLongPathsEnabled.reg` in another elevated prompt. You may need to restart your computer for these changes to take effect. A future version will make this easier. See also: https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/149

## Changed

- The database URL that we pull from has been updated to be https://cdn.winget.microsoft.com/cache/source.msix from https://winget.azureedge.net/cache/source.msix as winget will probably soon have a new version that uses this URL. Currently things don't appear broken, but they might soon. See also for my issue in my repo: https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/150 and also the winget PR that changed the URL: https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/pull/2026 and see this for the winget preview version it's part of: https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/releases/tag/v1.3.1251-preview
- Updated Microsoft.Data.Sqlite and Microsoft.Data.Sqlite.Core to 6.0.5 from 6.0.3.

## Deprecation notices

- The dropdown boxes in the `Action` column are deprecated in this version and will be removed in v0.4 since it was difficult to keep them with efficiency improvements. As a result, there's a new option in the `Options` window `Package List + Details` tab that'll let you single-click in the `Action` column to open the package context menu instead of having to double-click if you want to get used to how v0.4 will be. This is off by default, as it's kinda wonky with dropdown columns. Please see the related content in the `Added` section for more information.
- Since the code to get details from winget is deprecated, it was commented out in version 0.1 alpha. This code may continue to exist in this state as an example for how to get info from winget.