docs/Project-roadmap.md, before:

# Project roadmap

## Version 0.1 Pre-Alpha 1

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/1

- [X] Update package list using temporary batch script
- [X] Load package list from cache
- [X] Display package details, some in columns and entire manifest in a textbox
- [X] Allow sorting by column
- [X] Marking package (or multiple packages, if you wish) for install or ignoring package(s)
- [X] Passing a package id and version to winget for installation
  - Currently requires double-clicking or pressing "Enter" on a package in the Apply changes window, though eventually this won't be required and you'll be able to do batch installs.
  - For now, a CMD window displaying winget's output is shown, but eventually this output will be displayed in a textbox below the list of packages in the Apply changes window.
- [X] Don't hang if we can't find the package manifest cache ([issue #8](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/8))
- [ ] ~~An option to run `winget source update` before updating guinget's package list cache, so they're both as up to date as possible~~
  - Probably unimportant, since winget will just update its sources on installing an app anyway.
- [X] Functionality for `File>Exit` and `Help>About`
- [X] Hide controls that don't have features fully implemented, with a config option to show them
  - It's also possible to click a hidden label in the bottom-left corner of the About window to show hidden controls until next time guinget is opened.

## Version 0.1 Pre-Alpha 2

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/2

- [ ] ~~Allow the user to hide the progress bar and status label for loading so loading the package list goes faster~~ **The problem was having a text label updating; a progress bar is fine.**
- [X] Filtering/searching the package list (by id for now, but maybe name, description, and tags would be a good idea for a future version)
- [X] Dramatically speed up marking lots of packages at once by turning off auto-size columns while marking packages if we're marking an excessive amount at once, like 25 packages for example

## Version 0.1 Alpha

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/3

- [ ] ~~Use 7z.exe (7-Zip CLI) for extracting the manifests instead of PowerShell Extract-Archive to speed things up~~ **Since this version will default to a built-in updater, it probably wouldn't be a good idea to work more on update-manifests.bat as this version will deprecate update-manifests.bat**
- [X] Default to using the built-in updater, which uses the .Net `ZipFile` class for extraction, so it's much faster
- [X] Deprecate `update-manifests.bat`
- [ ] ~~Make marking everything in the list for installation (or for doing nothing) an async operation, so it doesn't lock up the UI~~ **While this is a good idea, it might not be a problem for now since this operation has already gotten way faster in version 0.1 pre-alpha 2.**

## Version 0.1.1 Alpha

- [X] Allow choosing whether to install packages interactively or just to have installers run silently with progress, which is the default ([issue #26](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/26))

## Version 0.1.2 Alpha

- [ ] Keep search terms in a listbox for quick use until closing guinget
- [ ] Hide sidebar tab control tabs and use a dropdown to switch between them ([issue #22](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/22))
- [ ] Add a button to the top-right of the sidebar to close it and a menu item to determine if the sidebar should be shown on application startup ([issue #21](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/21))
## Version 0.1.3 Alpha

- [ ] Check whether a package is currently installed ([issue #23](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/23))
- [ ] Allow packages to be re-installed (also issue #23)
- [ ] Allow searching through things like friendly name, description, and tags
- [ ] Filters for things that aren't the search feature, like `Status`, `Source` (package source; this'll be `Microsoft/winget-pkgs` on GitHub by default and for now), `Custom filters` (things like marked changes)
- [ ] Show number of packages marked for changes, like Synaptic

## Version 0.2 Beta

- [ ] Load the package list and package details async so that the UI doesn't lock up
- [ ] Allow batch installing of packages

Commit message:

Move batch package installs to a closer...
version as I have an idea about how to implement batch package installs before the version that will have it go down the list in the Apply changes window. I still do want it to work like that eventually if the user wants to, but it may take more time.

docs/Project-roadmap.md, after:

# Project roadmap

## Version 0.1 Pre-Alpha 1

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/1

- [X] Update package list using temporary batch script
- [X] Load package list from cache
- [X] Display package details, some in columns and entire manifest in a textbox
- [X] Allow sorting by column
- [X] Marking package (or multiple packages, if you wish) for install or ignoring package(s)
- [X] Passing a package id and version to winget for installation
  - Currently requires double-clicking or pressing "Enter" on a package in the Apply changes window, though eventually this won't be required and you'll be able to do batch installs.
  - For now, a CMD window displaying winget's output is shown, but eventually this output will be displayed in a textbox below the list of packages in the Apply changes window.
- [X] Don't hang if we can't find the package manifest cache ([issue #8](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/8))
- [ ] ~~An option to run `winget source update` before updating guinget's package list cache, so they're both as up to date as possible~~
  - Probably unimportant, since winget will just update its sources on installing an app anyway.
- [X] Functionality for `File>Exit` and `Help>About`
- [X] Hide controls that don't have features fully implemented, with a config option to show them
  - It's also possible to click a hidden label in the bottom-left corner of the About window to show hidden controls until next time guinget is opened.

## Version 0.1 Pre-Alpha 2

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/2

- [ ] ~~Allow the user to hide the progress bar and status label for loading so loading the package list goes faster~~ **The problem was having a text label updating; a progress bar is fine.**
- [X] Filtering/searching the package list (by id for now, but maybe name, description, and tags would be a good idea for a future version)
- [X] Dramatically speed up marking lots of packages at once by turning off auto-size columns while marking packages if we're marking an excessive amount at once, like 25 packages for example

## Version 0.1 Alpha

GitHub milestone:
https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/milestone/3

- [ ] ~~Use 7z.exe (7-Zip CLI) for extracting the manifests instead of PowerShell Extract-Archive to speed things up~~ **Since this version will default to a built-in updater, it probably wouldn't be a good idea to work more on update-manifests.bat as this version will deprecate update-manifests.bat**
- [X] Default to using the built-in updater, which uses the .Net `ZipFile` class for extraction, so it's much faster
- [X] Deprecate `update-manifests.bat`
- [ ] ~~Make marking everything in the list for installation (or for doing nothing) an async operation, so it doesn't lock up the UI~~ **While this is a good idea, it might not be a problem for now since this operation has already gotten way faster in version 0.1 pre-alpha 2.**

## Version 0.1.1 Alpha

- [X] Allow choosing whether to install packages interactively or just to have installers run silently with progress, which is the default ([issue #26](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/26))

## Version 0.1.2 Alpha

- [ ] Keep search terms in a listbox for quick use until closing guinget
- [ ] Hide sidebar tab control tabs and use a dropdown to switch between them ([issue #22](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/22))
- [ ] Add a button to the top-right of the sidebar to close it and a menu item to determine if the sidebar should be shown on application startup ([issue #21](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/21))

## Version 0.1.3 Alpha

- [ ] Allow batch installing of packages ([issue #30](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/30))

## Version 0.1.4 Alpha

- [ ] Check whether a package is currently installed ([issue #23](https://github.com/DrewNaylor/guinget/issues/23))
- [ ] Allow packages to be re-installed (also issue #23)
- [ ] Allow searching through things like friendly name, description, and tags
- [ ] Filters for things that aren't the search feature, like `Status`, `Source` (package source; this'll be `Microsoft/winget-pkgs` on GitHub by default and for now), `Custom filters` (things like marked changes)
- [ ] Show number of packages marked for changes, like Synaptic

## Version 0.2 Beta

- [ ] Load the package list and package details async so that the UI doesn't lock up

## Some later version

- [ ] If the user wants to, allow batch package installs to go through the package list in the Apply changes window individually rather than passing them all to winget at once
